We are at chapter one.
And this is the prerequisites
in getting set up.
And this is definitely more oriented
towards you beginning beginners.
So as I said before,
we're going to be building a portfolio
website about two pages in length.
And I will provide you all of the assets
that you see on that site already.
So the about me picture and
the pictures of the projects
that maybe you've actually done.
But I would actually prefer it and I think
it'll be a more meaningful project to you
if you swap this out with
all of your own information.
And so for those of you who are a little
bit more advanced and already know
how to set up a coding environment, this
might be what you wanna work on while I
address some of the beginning
beginners here for a few minutes.
So what I would recommend
you do is the following.
You can go to a website like Adobe Color,
and choose a color palette for your work.
So I am gonna be working in the color
palette you saw there on your screen, but
let me just open up Adobe Color here.
If you've not been to this website before,
this is color.adobe.com/explore.
And you'll see here that on this page,
there are a few color palettes,
they all look kind of remarkably similar.
Unfortunately, they don't
make this too obvious.
So if you go over here to the views side,
this little drop down here in the upper
right corner, go to color themes.
And then you can just go to
something like most popular, and so
this is what's popular here today.
All kinds of different color themes
that are here and available for you, or
you can filter them in a bunch
of other different ways.
And if you find one in here that you like,
you go wow, this one's really great,
click on it,
it will put you into another screen.
It'll give you all of the hex codes
that you need in order to work with this
particular color theme.
And of course, for
those of you who are graphic designers and
a little bit more
knowledgeable in this context,
you are welcome to of course
create your own color palette.
So that's the Adobe Color
functionality that's here.
Second, think about two fonts that go
together that you want to use together.
We're going to be using two fonts that
come from Google Fonts today that's Oxygen
and Oxygen Mono.
But, you are welcome to choose different
fonts, if you like different fonts.
And obviously, most of you're probably
familiar with the Google Fonts website,
it's at fonts.google.com.
And today there are only 12,084 fonts to
choose from, I hope that's enough for you.
And you can choose two that
are going to go together.
If you have no idea how to choose two
fonts that go together, the website that I
recommend for you is called font pair,
and that's at fontpair.co.
And font pair has a whole
bunch of different fonts.
You can just scroll through here, and
it'll give you some ideas of
two fonts that go together.
So if design is not really your thing,
just pick something from here that you go,
wow, that looks kind of fun.
I think I might make use
of those particular fonts.
And I believe the fonts that are in use
here are also available on Google Fonts,
but you'll want to double check that and
make sure that that's true.
Get a photo of yourself, suitable for
a workplace type of website.
The usual types of recommendations
apply obviously, this is a work site so
you want to have something that's
fairly professional looking.
Don't wear a hat, don't wear your
sunglasses, smile, look at the camera.
Those would be my biggest hints to you for
a picture for that particular page.
Three examples of your work would be
a great thing to include as well,
you can get a screenshot for each of those
to fit the theme that I've given you here.
And write up just a couple of sentences
about that particular project.
That would be a wonderful
thing to include and then you
could maybe link of someplace where you
might have some more detail about that.
The social media links are good things
to include I recommend LinkedIn and
GitHub for a work related website.
But if you are a big Twitter user or
other social media platform user and
you want to include that
that's fine as well.
And if you wish, a copy of your resume,
and you might have that in PDF format and
might be on a place like Dropbox or
Box or Google Drive.
Or maybe you actually have that someplace
else that's already marked up in HTML, and
that would be fine too.
All right, so the things that you should
know before you take this course.
So back a few years ago we put together
a boot camp here at Front End Masters,
it was Brian Holt who did
the JavaScript part of that.
And I covered HTML and CSS,
that is available online.
So, we offered this course here
on our Internet fundamentals,
Internet fundamentals.com/watch
will give you all of these videos.
They're totally free you don't
even need to register for them.
And they'll give you a little bit of
background about things like a very,
very high level about
how the Internet works.
They'll talk about files and
folders, organizing files and
folders on your Mac or on your PC.
A little bit of background about browsers
and those kinds of technologies,
and a little bit about CodePen and
moving information into CodePen.
Moving it over to VS Code,
which is the editor that we'll
be using to build web pages.
So, that is here it's
on the Internet again,
no registration required you can watch
these videos at any point in time.
The bootcamp itself, it requires
only an email address in order to
watch the videos here for
this particular course.
And so you do not need a Frontend Masters
subscription to watch this.
And like I said, again, it's gonna walk
you through the basic basics of HTML and
CSS, there's a website that goes
with that as well, that's here.
And so what I am recommending that
you complete before you start this
particular course would be
simply there's an introduction.
There's a setup and prerequisites HTML,
CSS and Layout, that's it.
Those first five chapters are what
you're gonna need to know in order to
take this particular course.
I'll talk you through all the rest of it.
Finally, in terms of technology,
you're going to need to have some kind of
editor for HTML and CSS to follow along.
Although we're not going to get there for
a little while.
The editor that I will use when we
get there is called VS code and
it's available here,
I've given you the link.
If you want to download this tool and
follow along, this is it,
and mine comes up as Mac
because I'm using a Mac.
But as you'll see here on the down arrow,
you also have choices for Windows and for
Linux if those are the platforms
that you happen to be running.
Why VS code,
it tends to be an industry standard,
it's relatively straightforward to set
up so that is here and available to you.
If you like something else
if you prefer brackets,
if you prefer Sublime Text,
if you prefer Notepad plus plus.
You are welcome to use any tool that you
want that will let you write HTML and CSS.
And there are a lot of those because
again, we're keeping this simple, simple.
And then finally,
we're going to be using code pen as
one of our big technologies today.
And code pen is here at code pen.io,
I have already created an account.
But if you have not, you can do so.
I will give you links to the CodePen.
So this is what code pen looks like,
it's got an HTML block here on the top,
it's got a CSS block here.
There's also a JavaScript
block down here underneath but
I generally use the JavaScript
block to give you directions.
That's all one great big huge comment
because again we're not reading any
JavaScript in this course.
Up here on the top under settings,
you'll find places where you can
add to this specifically under CSS.
Scroll down to the bottom,
we'll go through this again later as well.
You can add here external stylesheets or
pens,
this is a great way to include the fonts
that you're gonna use on this web page.
So we'll make use of this when we add
our links to our Google Fonts into
Font Awesome.
The other part of this is this funny
looking button here that I don't
know it's kind of a bunch of boxes.
This is how you change
the orientation of your page.
And I believe when you start code pen,
it will look like this where you've got
the HTML and CSS and JavaScript on the top
of the page with the design underneath.
I find it more convenient to put my code
on the left hand side of the screen,
because then I am able to grab this
middle bar and move this back and forth.
Which is helpful for
working in responsive design.
So you can configure your screen the same
way, and then of course you'll need a web
browser hopefully you have Firefox and
Chrome installed on your computer.
Those are definitely preferred over
Safari or edge which depending may
have different issues and
tend to be less cross browser compatible.
Although this becomes less and less of
an issue with every month that goes by.